docs/06-next-steps.md, before:

# Next Steps: Applying to Your Capstone

You have completed the tutorial and learned the full AI-assisted development workflow. Now it's time to apply these skills to your actual capstone project.

## What You Have Learned

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Skills Acquired                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  AI-Assisted Development:    Professional Workflow:         │
│  ────────────────────────    ────────────────────           │
│  • Claude Code for coding    • Git version control          │
│  • Spec-kit for planning     • Branch-based development     │
│  • AI as thinking partner    • Pull request reviews         │
│  • Prompt engineering        • Jira task tracking           │
│                                                             │
│  Technical Skills:           Collaboration:                 │
│  ─────────────────           ──────────────                 │
│  • Python/Streamlit          • Traceability                 │
│  • Virtual environments      • Code review process          │
│  • Terminal/CLI usage        • Documentation                │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Capstone Project Setup Checklist

Use this checklist when setting up your actual capstone project. Each team member should complete these steps.

### Repository Setup

- [ ] **Create a new GitHub repository** for your capstone
  - One team member creates the repo
  - Others are added as collaborators (Settings → Collaborators)
  - Choose a clear, descriptive name (e.g., `capstone-inventory-system`)

- [ ] **Initialize the repository** with:
  - README.md with project description
  - .gitignore for your tech stack
  - LICENSE if applicable

- [ ] **Clone the repository** to your local machine
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/team/capstone-project.git
  cd capstone-project
  ```

### Jira Setup (For Teams)

- [ ] **Create a shared Jira project**
  - One team member creates the project
  - Invite others: Project Settings → Access → Add people
  - Choose a meaningful project key (e.g., `INV` for inventory system)

- [ ] **Set up your board**
  - Create columns: To Do, In Progress, In Review, Done
  - Decide on sprint length if using Scrum

- [ ] **Install GitHub for Jira** on the team project
  - Connect to your capstone repository
  - Test with a sample commit

### Development Environment

- [ ] **Each team member** should have:
  - Cursor installed with Claude Code
  - Git configured with their name/email
  - Python 3.11+ (if using Python)
  - uv and spec-kit installed
  - Access to the shared Jira project

- [ ] **Create initial project structure**
  - Ask Claude Code to help set up a standard structure
  - Create requirements.txt or package.json
  - Set up virtual environment

### Spec-Kit Initialization

- [ ] **Initialize spec-kit** in your capstone repo
  ```bash
  specify init . --ai claude
  ```

- [ ] **Create your constitution**
  - Define project principles
  - Agree on coding standards
  - Document technology choices

---

## Team Workflow

When working as a team, the workflow expands slightly:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Team Workflow                             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  1. Pick up a Jira issue (assign to yourself)               │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  2. Create a feature branch                                 │
│     feature/PROJ-123-description                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  3. Build with Claude Code                                  │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  4. Commit with Jira key                                    │
│     "PROJ-123: add user login"                              │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  5. Push and create Pull Request                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  6. Request review from teammate                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  7. Address feedback                                        │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  8. Merge when approved                                     │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  9. Move Jira issue to Done                                 │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Code Review Guidelines

When reviewing a teammate's pull request:

1. **Check functionality** — Does the code do what the Jira issue describes?
2. **Read the code** — Is it clear and understandable?
3. **Look for issues** — Bugs, edge cases, security concerns
4. **Be constructive** — Suggest improvements, don't just criticize
5. **Approve or request changes** — Be timely; don't block teammates

When your code is reviewed:

1. **Respond to all comments** — Even if just "Done" or "Addressed"
2. **Don't take it personally** — Reviews improve code quality
3. **Ask questions** — If feedback is unclear, ask for clarification
4. **Push updates** — Address feedback in new commits

---

## Best Practices for Capstone Success

### Use Branches Consistently

**Never commit directly to main.** Always:

1. Create a feature branch from main
2. Do your work on the branch
3. Create a PR when ready
4. Merge after review

This prevents conflicts and keeps main stable.

### Keep Jira Updated

- **Move cards** as work progresses (To Do → In Progress → Done)
- **Add comments** when you encounter blockers
- **Link related issues** if they depend on each other

This keeps the whole team informed.

### Commit Often, Push Regularly

- **Commit** when you complete a logical unit of work
- **Push** at least once per work session
- This creates backup and enables collaboration

### Communicate with Your Team

- **Daily standups** — What did you do? What will you do? Any blockers?
- **Slack/Teams** — Quick questions and updates
- **PR comments** — Technical discussions about code

### Use Claude Code Effectively

Claude Code is most helpful when you:

1. **Provide context** — Tell it about your project and constraints
2. **Ask specific questions** — "How do I..." not "Fix this"
3. **Iterate** — Build on Claude's suggestions
4. **Verify** — Don't blindly accept generated code
5. **Learn** — Ask Claude to explain what it did

---

## Common Capstone Patterns

### Starting a New Feature

```bash
# 1. Make sure main is up to date
git checkout main
git pull origin main

# 2. Create feature branch
git checkout -b feature/PROJ-123-add-user-dashboard

# 3. Start Claude Code
claude

# 4. Work with Claude to implement
# ...

# 5. Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "PROJ-123: add user dashboard with recent activity"
git push -u origin feature/PROJ-123-add-user-dashboard

# 6. Create PR on GitHub
```

### Handling Merge Conflicts

When you see "This branch has conflicts":

```bash
# 1. Get latest main
git fetch origin

# 2. Merge main into your branch
git merge origin/main

# 3. If conflicts, ask Claude for help
# "Help me resolve merge conflicts in src/app.py"

# 4. After resolving
git add .
git commit -m "PROJ-123: resolve merge conflicts"
git push
```

### Debugging with Claude Code

When something breaks:

```
I'm seeing this error: [paste error]

The relevant code is in [filename].

What's causing this and how do I fix it?
```

Claude can read your code and provide specific solutions.

---

## Capstone Resources

### Documentation to Create

- [ ] **README.md** — Project overview, setup instructions, team members
- [ ] **CONTRIBUTING.md** — How to contribute, coding standards
- [ ] **Architecture doc** — System design, component overview

### Tools to Consider

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| **GitHub Projects** | Kanban board integrated with GitHub |
| **GitHub Actions** | Automated testing on every PR |
| **Figma** | UI/UX design and prototyping |
| **Notion** | Team wiki and documentation |

### Getting Help

- **Claude Code** — First line of defense for technical issues
- **Team members** — Pair programming, code reviews
- **Instructor** — Office hours for complex problems
- **Online resources** — Stack Overflow, documentation

---

## Final Reminders

1. **Start with the PRD** — Know what you are building before coding

2. **Use spec-kit** — Plan before you implement

3. **Keep Jira current** — Your project manager (and grade) depends on it

4. **Commit with Jira keys** — Traceability matters

5. **Review each other's code** — Fresh eyes catch bugs

6. **Ask Claude for help** — It's there to make you more productive

7. **Have fun** — You are building something real with industry tools

---

## Quick Reference Card

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Quick Reference                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  Start new work:                                            │
│  git checkout main && git pull                              │
│  git checkout -b feature/PROJ-123-description               │
│                                                             │
│  Save work:                                                 │
│  git add . && git commit -m "PROJ-123: description"         │
│  git push -u origin feature/PROJ-123-description            │
│                                                             │
│  Update from main:                                          │
│  git fetch origin && git merge origin/main                  │
│                                                             │
│  Check status:                                              │
│  git status && git log --oneline -5                         │
│                                                             │
│  Get help:                                                  │
│  claude  (then describe your problem)                       │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Good luck with your capstone! You have the skills and tools to succeed.

Commit message:

Add terminal clarity to next-steps and FAQ docs

docs/06-next-steps.md, after:

# Next Steps: Applying to Your Capstone

You have completed the tutorial and learned the full AI-assisted development workflow. Now it's time to apply these skills to your actual capstone project.

## What You Have Learned

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Skills Acquired                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  AI-Assisted Development:    Professional Workflow:         │
│  ────────────────────────    ────────────────────           │
│  • Claude Code for coding    • Git version control          │
│  • Spec-kit for planning     • Branch-based development     │
│  • AI as thinking partner    • Pull request reviews         │
│  • Prompt engineering        • Jira task tracking           │
│                                                             │
│  Technical Skills:           Collaboration:                 │
│  ─────────────────           ──────────────                 │
│  • Python/Streamlit          • Traceability                 │
│  • Virtual environments      • Code review process          │
│  • Terminal/CLI usage        • Documentation                │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Capstone Project Setup Checklist

Use this checklist when setting up your actual capstone project. Each team member should complete these steps.

### Repository Setup

- [ ] **Create a new GitHub repository** for your capstone
  - One team member creates the repo
  - Others are added as collaborators (Settings → Collaborators)
  - Choose a clear, descriptive name (e.g., `capstone-inventory-system`)

- [ ] **Initialize the repository** with:
  - README.md with project description
  - .gitignore for your tech stack
  - LICENSE if applicable

- [ ] **Clone the repository** to your local machine. In the terminal:
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/team/capstone-project.git
  cd capstone-project
  ```

### Jira Setup (For Teams)

- [ ] **Create a shared Jira project**
  - One team member creates the project
  - Invite others: Project Settings → Access → Add people
  - Choose a meaningful project key (e.g., `INV` for inventory system)

- [ ] **Set up your board**
  - Create columns: To Do, In Progress, In Review, Done
  - Decide on sprint length if using Scrum

- [ ] **Install GitHub for Jira** on the team project
  - Connect to your capstone repository
  - Test with a sample commit

### Development Environment

- [ ] **Each team member** should have:
  - Cursor installed with Claude Code
  - Git configured with their name/email
  - Python 3.11+ (if using Python)
  - uv and spec-kit installed
  - Access to the shared Jira project

- [ ] **Create initial project structure**
  - Ask Claude Code to help set up a standard structure
  - Create requirements.txt or package.json
  - Set up virtual environment

### Spec-Kit Initialization

- [ ] **Initialize spec-kit** in your capstone repo. In the terminal:
  ```bash
  specify init . --ai claude
  ```

- [ ] **Create your constitution**
  - Define project principles
  - Agree on coding standards
  - Document technology choices

---

## Team Workflow

When working as a team, the workflow expands slightly:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Team Workflow                             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  1. Pick up a Jira issue (assign to yourself)               │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  2. Create a feature branch                                 │
│     feature/PROJ-123-description                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  3. Build with Claude Code                                  │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  4. Commit with Jira key                                    │
│     "PROJ-123: add user login"                              │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  5. Push and create Pull Request                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  6. Request review from teammate                            │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  7. Address feedback                                        │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  8. Merge when approved                                     │
│                 ↓                                           │
│  9. Move Jira issue to Done                                 │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Code Review Guidelines

When reviewing a teammate's pull request:

1. **Check functionality** — Does the code do what the Jira issue describes?
2. **Read the code** — Is it clear and understandable?
3. **Look for issues** — Bugs, edge cases, security concerns
4. **Be constructive** — Suggest improvements, don't just criticize
5. **Approve or request changes** — Be timely; don't block teammates

When your code is reviewed:

1. **Respond to all comments** — Even if just "Done" or "Addressed"
2. **Don't take it personally** — Reviews improve code quality
3. **Ask questions** — If feedback is unclear, ask for clarification
4. **Push updates** — Address feedback in new commits

---

## Best Practices for Capstone Success

### Use Branches Consistently

**Never commit directly to main.** Always:

1. Create a feature branch from main
2. Do your work on the branch
3. Create a PR when ready
4. Merge after review

This prevents conflicts and keeps main stable.

### Keep Jira Updated

- **Move cards** as work progresses (To Do → In Progress → Done)
- **Add comments** when you encounter blockers
- **Link related issues** if they depend on each other

This keeps the whole team informed.

### Commit Often, Push Regularly

- **Commit** when you complete a logical unit of work
- **Push** at least once per work session
- This creates backup and enables collaboration

### Communicate with Your Team

- **Daily standups** — What did you do? What will you do? Any blockers?
- **Slack/Teams** — Quick questions and updates
- **PR comments** — Technical discussions about code

### Use Claude Code Effectively

Claude Code is most helpful when you:

1. **Provide context** — Tell it about your project and constraints
2. **Ask specific questions** — "How do I..." not "Fix this"
3. **Iterate** — Build on Claude's suggestions
4. **Verify** — Don't blindly accept generated code
5. **Learn** — Ask Claude to explain what it did

---

## Common Capstone Patterns

### Starting a New Feature

In the terminal:
```bash
# 1. Make sure main is up to date
git checkout main
git pull origin main

# 2. Create feature branch
git checkout -b feature/PROJ-123-add-user-dashboard

# 3. Start Claude Code
claude

# 4. Work with Claude to implement
# ...

# 5. Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "PROJ-123: add user dashboard with recent activity"
git push -u origin feature/PROJ-123-add-user-dashboard

# 6. Create PR on GitHub
```

### Handling Merge Conflicts

When you see "This branch has conflicts", run these in the terminal:

```bash
# 1. Get latest main
git fetch origin

# 2. Merge main into your branch
git merge origin/main

# 3. If conflicts, ask Claude for help
# "Help me resolve merge conflicts in src/app.py"

# 4. After resolving
git add .
git commit -m "PROJ-123: resolve merge conflicts"
git push
```

### Debugging with Claude Code

When something breaks:

```
I'm seeing this error: [paste error]

The relevant code is in [filename].

What's causing this and how do I fix it?
```

Claude can read your code and provide specific solutions.

---

## Capstone Resources

### Documentation to Create

- [ ] **README.md** — Project overview, setup instructions, team members
- [ ] **CONTRIBUTING.md** — How to contribute, coding standards
- [ ] **Architecture doc** — System design, component overview

### Tools to Consider

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| **GitHub Projects** | Kanban board integrated with GitHub |
| **GitHub Actions** | Automated testing on every PR |
| **Figma** | UI/UX design and prototyping |
| **Notion** | Team wiki and documentation |

### Getting Help

- **Claude Code** — First line of defense for technical issues
- **Team members** — Pair programming, code reviews
- **Instructor** — Office hours for complex problems
- **Online resources** — Stack Overflow, documentation

---

## Final Reminders

1. **Start with the PRD** — Know what you are building before coding

2. **Use spec-kit** — Plan before you implement

3. **Keep Jira current** — Your project manager (and grade) depends on it

4. **Commit with Jira keys** — Traceability matters

5. **Review each other's code** — Fresh eyes catch bugs

6. **Ask Claude for help** — It's there to make you more productive

7. **Have fun** — You are building something real with industry tools

---

## Quick Reference Card

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Quick Reference                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  Start new work:                                            │
│  git checkout main && git pull                              │
│  git checkout -b feature/PROJ-123-description               │
│                                                             │
│  Save work:                                                 │
│  git add . && git commit -m "PROJ-123: description"         │
│  git push -u origin feature/PROJ-123-description            │
│                                                             │
│  Update from main:                                          │
│  git fetch origin && git merge origin/main                  │
│                                                             │
│  Check status:                                              │
│  git status && git log --oneline -5                         │
│                                                             │
│  Get help:                                                  │
│  claude  (then describe your problem)                       │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Good luck with your capstone! You have the skills and tools to succeed.
