docs/07-faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## General Questions

### What is the purpose of this tutorial?

This tutorial teaches you a complete, AI-assisted workflow for building technology solutions using modern tools. You will learn how to go from requirements to deployed, shareable solutions with full traceability.

### Do I need prior experience with these tools?

No. This tutorial assumes no prior experience with Git, Jira, Claude Code, or AI-assisted development. You should have basic Python knowledge and familiarity with VS Code.

### How long does the tutorial take?

The tutorial is designed for two 100-minute sessions. If you work independently, budget 3-4 hours total.

### Can I use this workflow for my actual capstone project?

Yes! That is exactly the intention. The skills and workflow you learn here transfer directly to your capstone and future professional work.

---

## Account and Subscription Questions

### Why do I need a Claude Pro subscription?

Claude Code (the CLI tool) requires a Claude Pro subscription ($20/month) to function. The subscription gives you access to Claude's AI capabilities for coding assistance.

### What if I hit usage limits during the tutorial?

Claude Pro includes generous limits for most use cases. If you hit limits:
1. Wait — limits reset every 5 hours
2. Upgrade to Claude Max ($100/month) for higher limits
3. Work in smaller chunks to use fewer tokens

### Can I share accounts with other students?

No. Each person should have their own GitHub, Atlassian, and Claude accounts. Sharing accounts creates confusion and is against terms of service.

### Is there a free alternative to Claude Pro?

Claude Code specifically requires a Claude Pro subscription. For the capstone, this is a worthwhile investment in your productivity and learning.

---

## Git and GitHub Questions

### What is the difference between Git and GitHub?

- **Git** is the version control software that runs on your computer
- **GitHub** is a website that hosts Git repositories in the cloud

You use Git to manage your code locally, and GitHub to share it with others.

### How often should I commit?

Commit when you complete a logical unit of work. This might be:
- After implementing a single function
- After fixing a bug
- After making a UI component work

A good rule: if you can describe it in one sentence, it's a good commit size.

### What makes a good commit message?

Good: `ECOM-1: add KPI cards showing total sales and orders`
- Includes Jira key for traceability
- Describes what was added/changed
- Uses present tense ("add" not "added")

Bad: `fixed stuff` / `work in progress` / `asdfasdf`
- No context
- No Jira reference
- Meaningless to others

---

## Jira Questions

### Why do we use Jira?

Jira is the most widely used project management tool for teams building with technology. Learning it prepares you for professional environments. It provides:
- Visibility into what everyone is working on
- Tracking of progress toward goals
- Connection between tasks and code changes

### Can I use a different project management tool?

For this tutorial, please use Jira. For your capstone, ask your instructor about alternatives.

### What do the Jira issue types mean?

- **Story** — A user-facing feature ("As a user, I want to...")
- **Task** — A technical task (set up database, configure deployment)
- **Bug** — Something that is broken and needs fixing
- **Epic** — A collection of related stories/tasks

For this tutorial, Story or Task both work fine.

### How should I write Jira issue descriptions?

Include:
1. What needs to be done (specific and clear)
2. Why it matters (context)
3. Acceptance criteria (how do we know it's done?)
4. Any technical notes or constraints

---

## Claude Code Questions

### What can Claude Code do?

Claude Code can:
- Read and understand your codebase
- Write new code based on your descriptions
- Modify existing code
- Explain what code does
- Debug errors
- Answer questions about programming
- Run terminal commands

### How is Claude Code different from ChatGPT?

Claude Code:
- Runs in your terminal, integrated with your project
- Can read your actual files
- Can make changes directly
- Designed specifically for coding workflows

ChatGPT:
- Web-based chat interface
- Cannot access your local files
- Copy/paste-based workflow
- General purpose, not code-focused

### What are good prompts for Claude Code?

Good prompts are:
- **Specific**: "Add a function to calculate total sales from the DataFrame"
- **Contextual**: "In app.py, modify the bar chart to sort by value descending"
- **Bounded**: "Create a single function that..." (not "build an entire app")

Bad prompts:
- **Vague**: "Make it better"
- **Too broad**: "Build an entire e-commerce platform"
- **Lacking context**: "Fix the bug" (which bug?)

### Should I trust everything Claude generates?

No. Always:
1. Read the generated code
2. Understand what it does
3. Test that it works
4. Verify it meets your requirements

Claude is powerful but not perfect. Treat it as a knowledgeable assistant, not an oracle.

---

## Spec-Kit Questions

### Why use spec-kit instead of just coding?

Spec-kit enforces a "think before you code" approach:
1. **Specification** clarifies what you are building
2. **Planning** identifies the technical approach
3. **Task breakdown** makes work manageable
4. **Implementation** is guided by the spec

This reduces wasted effort from building the wrong thing.

### What if spec-kit commands don't work?

Try:
1. Ensure spec-kit is initialized (run in terminal): `specify init . --ai claude`
2. Use natural language instead: "Use spec-kit to create a specification for..."
3. Check that spec-kit is installed (run in terminal): `specify --help`

### Can I skip spec-kit for small tasks?

For very small tasks (single function, quick fix), spec-kit might be overkill. For anything substantial, the time spent planning pays off in better results.

---

## Integration Questions

### What is MCP (Model Context Protocol)?

MCP is a protocol that allows Claude Code to connect to external services like Jira. With the Atlassian MCP, Claude can:
- Read your Jira issues
- Understand project context
- Create or update issues (if configured)

---

## Streamlit and Dashboard Questions

### Why Streamlit?

Streamlit is:
- Easy to learn (Python-based)
- Fast to prototype with
- Good for data dashboards
- Popular in data science/analytics

It's a great fit for ISBA students building data-focused applications.

### How do I run the dashboard?

In the terminal:
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

This starts a local server and opens your browser. Press Ctrl+C in the terminal to stop.

### Can I use a different visualization library?

Yes. Common alternatives:
- **Plotly** (recommended) — Interactive charts
- **Altair** — Declarative visualization
- **Matplotlib** — Classic Python plotting
- **Built-in Streamlit charts** — Simplest option

---

## Technical Questions

### What Python version do I need?

Python 3.11 or higher. Check in the terminal:
```bash
python --version  # or python3 --version
```

### Do I need to learn terminal commands?

You need basic commands (cd, ls, git). See the [Terminal Basics](02-terminal-basics.md) guide. Claude Code can help you with most terminal operations.

### What if I'm more comfortable with VS Code than Cursor?

Cursor is nearly identical to VS Code — it's built on the same foundation. Everything you know from VS Code works in Cursor. The main difference is Cursor has built-in AI features.

---

## Team and Collaboration Questions

### How should teams divide work?

Options:
- **By feature**: Each person owns a feature end-to-end
- **By layer**: Frontend/backend/data split
- **By expertise**: Each person handles what they're best at

The best approach depends on your team and project.

### How do we avoid conflicts when working together?

1. Communicate — "I'm working on file X"
2. Pull frequently — `git pull` before starting work
3. Commit and push often so changes are visible to the team
4. Ask Claude for help if you encounter issues

---

## How to Ask Claude for Help Effectively

When asking Claude Code for help with problems, use this format for best results:

### Good Problem Description Format

```
I'm trying to: [what you want to accomplish]

What I did: [steps you took]

What happened: [the actual result, including error messages]

What I expected: [what you thought should happen]
```

### Example — Good Request

> I'm trying to: run my Streamlit dashboard
>
> What I did: I ran `streamlit run app.py` in the terminal
>
> What happened: I got this error:
> `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pandas'`
>
> What I expected: The dashboard should open in my browser

**Why this works**: Claude has all the context needed to diagnose the problem (missing pandas installation) and suggest the fix (`pip install pandas`).

### Example — Poor Request

> It doesn't work

**Why this fails**: Claude doesn't know what "it" is, what you tried, or what error you saw. It has to ask follow-up questions, wasting time.

### Tips for Getting Better Help

1. **Copy the full error message** — Don't paraphrase errors
2. **Mention the file you're working on** — "In app.py, line 15..."
3. **Describe what you already tried** — Helps Claude avoid suggesting things you've done
4. **Be specific about your goal** — "I want the chart to show monthly data, not daily"

---

## If Your Question Isn't Here

1. **Ask Claude Code**: Use the format above for best results
2. **Check the Glossary**: [08-glossary.md](08-glossary.md) for term definitions
3. **Check Troubleshooting**: [05-troubleshooting.md](05-troubleshooting.md) for common errors
4. **Search online**: Error messages are usually searchable
5. **Ask in Teams**: Post with context and what you've tried
6. **Office hours**: For complex issues

Commit message:

Update docs for consistency with tutorial workflow
- 00-overview: Add multiple Jira issues, evidence, merge to checkpoints
- 08-glossary: Add Branch, Feature Branch, Merge, Commit Hash terms
- 07-faq: Update commit guidance, emphasize natural language with Claude

docs/07-faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## General Questions

### What is the purpose of this tutorial?

This tutorial teaches you a complete, AI-assisted workflow for building technology solutions using modern tools. You will learn how to go from requirements to deployed, shareable solutions with full traceability.

### Do I need prior experience with these tools?

No. This tutorial assumes no prior experience with Git, Jira, Claude Code, or AI-assisted development. You should have basic Python knowledge and familiarity with VS Code.

### How long does the tutorial take?

The tutorial is designed for two 100-minute sessions. If you work independently, budget 3-4 hours total.

### Can I use this workflow for my actual capstone project?

Yes! That is exactly the intention. The skills and workflow you learn here transfer directly to your capstone and future professional work.

---

## Account and Subscription Questions

### Why do I need a Claude Pro subscription?

Claude Code (the CLI tool) requires a Claude Pro subscription ($20/month) to function. The subscription gives you access to Claude's AI capabilities for coding assistance.

### What if I hit usage limits during the tutorial?

Claude Pro includes generous limits for most use cases. If you hit limits:
1. Wait — limits reset every 5 hours
2. Upgrade to Claude Max ($100/month) for higher limits
3. Work in smaller chunks to use fewer tokens

### Can I share accounts with other students?

No. Each person should have their own GitHub, Atlassian, and Claude accounts. Sharing accounts creates confusion and is against terms of service.

### Is there a free alternative to Claude Pro?

Claude Code specifically requires a Claude Pro subscription. For the capstone, this is a worthwhile investment in your productivity and learning.

---

## Git and GitHub Questions

### What is the difference between Git and GitHub?

- **Git** is the version control software that runs on your computer
- **GitHub** is a website that hosts Git repositories in the cloud

You use Git to manage your code locally, and GitHub to share it with others.

### How often should I commit?

Commit when you complete a logical unit of work. This might be:
- After implementing a Jira issue
- After completing a feature
- After fixing a bug

A good rule: if you can describe it in one sentence, it's a good commit size. Don't wait until everything is done — commit at meaningful moments so you never lose much progress.

### What makes a good commit message?

Good: `ECOM-1: add KPI cards showing total sales and orders`
- Includes Jira key for traceability
- Describes what was added/changed
- Uses present tense ("add" not "added")

Bad: `fixed stuff` / `work in progress` / `asdfasdf`
- No context
- No Jira reference
- Meaningless to others

---

## Jira Questions

### Why do we use Jira?

Jira is the most widely used project management tool for teams building with technology. Learning it prepares you for professional environments. It provides:
- Visibility into what everyone is working on
- Tracking of progress toward goals
- Connection between tasks and code changes

### Can I use a different project management tool?

For this tutorial, please use Jira. For your capstone, ask your instructor about alternatives.

### What do the Jira issue types mean?

- **Story** — A user-facing feature ("As a user, I want to...")
- **Task** — A technical task (set up database, configure deployment)
- **Bug** — Something that is broken and needs fixing
- **Epic** — A collection of related stories/tasks

For this tutorial, Story or Task both work fine.

### How should I write Jira issue descriptions?

Include:
1. What needs to be done (specific and clear)
2. Why it matters (context)
3. Acceptance criteria (how do we know it's done?)
4. Any technical notes or constraints

---

## Claude Code Questions

### What can Claude Code do?

Claude Code can:
- Read and understand your codebase
- Write new code based on your descriptions
- Modify existing code
- Explain what code does
- Debug errors
- Answer questions about programming
- Run terminal commands

### How is Claude Code different from ChatGPT?

Claude Code:
- Runs in your terminal, integrated with your project
- Can read your actual files
- Can make changes directly
- Designed specifically for coding workflows

ChatGPT:
- Web-based chat interface
- Cannot access your local files
- Copy/paste-based workflow
- General purpose, not code-focused

### What are good prompts for Claude Code?

Good prompts are:
- **Specific**: "Add a function to calculate total sales from the DataFrame"
- **Contextual**: "In app.py, modify the bar chart to sort by value descending"
- **Bounded**: "Create a single function that..." (not "build an entire app")

Bad prompts:
- **Vague**: "Make it better"
- **Too broad**: "Build an entire e-commerce platform"
- **Lacking context**: "Fix the bug" (which bug?)

### Should I trust everything Claude generates?

No. Always:
1. Read the generated code
2. Understand what it does
3. Test that it works
4. Verify it meets your requirements

Claude is powerful but not perfect. Treat it as a knowledgeable assistant, not an oracle.

---

## Spec-Kit Questions

### Why use spec-kit instead of just coding?

Spec-kit enforces a "think before you code" approach:
1. **Specification** clarifies what you are building
2. **Planning** identifies the technical approach
3. **Task breakdown** makes work manageable
4. **Implementation** is guided by the spec

This reduces wasted effort from building the wrong thing.

### What if spec-kit commands don't work?

Try:
1. Ensure spec-kit is initialized (run in terminal): `specify init . --ai claude`
2. Use natural language instead: "Use spec-kit to create a specification for..."
3. Check that spec-kit is installed (run in terminal): `specify --help`

### Can I skip spec-kit for small tasks?

For very small tasks (single function, quick fix), spec-kit might be overkill. For anything substantial, the time spent planning pays off in better results.

---

## Integration Questions

### What is MCP (Model Context Protocol)?

MCP is a protocol that allows Claude Code to connect to external services like Jira. With the Atlassian MCP, Claude can:
- Read your Jira issues
- Understand project context
- Create or update issues (if configured)

---

## Streamlit and Dashboard Questions

### Why Streamlit?

Streamlit is:
- Easy to learn (Python-based)
- Fast to prototype with
- Good for data dashboards
- Popular in data science/analytics

It's a great fit for ISBA students building data-focused applications.

### How do I run the dashboard?

In the terminal:
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

This starts a local server and opens your browser. Press Ctrl+C in the terminal to stop.

### Can I use a different visualization library?

Yes. Common alternatives:
- **Plotly** (recommended) — Interactive charts
- **Altair** — Declarative visualization
- **Matplotlib** — Classic Python plotting
- **Built-in Streamlit charts** — Simplest option

---

## Technical Questions

### What Python version do I need?

Python 3.11 or higher. Check in the terminal:
```bash
python --version  # or python3 --version
```

### Do I need to learn terminal commands?

Basic familiarity helps, but Claude Code lets you use natural language instead of memorizing commands. For example, instead of typing `git commit -m "message"`, you can tell Claude: "Commit my changes for ECOM-1." See the [Terminal Basics](02-terminal-basics.md) guide for reference.

### What if I'm more comfortable with VS Code than Cursor?

Cursor is nearly identical to VS Code — it's built on the same foundation. Everything you know from VS Code works in Cursor. The main difference is Cursor has built-in AI features.

---

## Team and Collaboration Questions

### How should teams divide work?

Options:
- **By feature**: Each person owns a feature end-to-end
- **By layer**: Frontend/backend/data split
- **By expertise**: Each person handles what they're best at

The best approach depends on your team and project.

### How do we avoid conflicts when working together?

1. Communicate — "I'm working on file X"
2. Pull frequently — `git pull` before starting work
3. Commit and push often so changes are visible to the team
4. Ask Claude for help if you encounter issues

---

## How to Ask Claude for Help Effectively

When asking Claude Code for help with problems, use this format for best results:

### Good Problem Description Format

```
I'm trying to: [what you want to accomplish]

What I did: [steps you took]

What happened: [the actual result, including error messages]

What I expected: [what you thought should happen]
```

### Example — Good Request

> I'm trying to: run my Streamlit dashboard
>
> What I did: I ran `streamlit run app.py` in the terminal
>
> What happened: I got this error:
> `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pandas'`
>
> What I expected: The dashboard should open in my browser

**Why this works**: Claude has all the context needed to diagnose the problem (missing pandas installation) and suggest the fix (`pip install pandas`).

### Example — Poor Request

> It doesn't work

**Why this fails**: Claude doesn't know what "it" is, what you tried, or what error you saw. It has to ask follow-up questions, wasting time.

### Tips for Getting Better Help

1. **Copy the full error message** — Don't paraphrase errors
2. **Mention the file you're working on** — "In app.py, line 15..."
3. **Describe what you already tried** — Helps Claude avoid suggesting things you've done
4. **Be specific about your goal** — "I want the chart to show monthly data, not daily"

---

## If Your Question Isn't Here

1. **Ask Claude Code**: Use the format above for best results
2. **Check the Glossary**: [08-glossary.md](08-glossary.md) for term definitions
3. **Check Troubleshooting**: [05-troubleshooting.md](05-troubleshooting.md) for common errors
4. **Search online**: Error messages are usually searchable
5. **Ask in Teams**: Post with context and what you've tried
6. **Office hours**: For complex issues
